doc/dev_guides/nrf54l: added fota_update & KMU guides (#18231)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54l/fota_update.rst

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota:

FOTA updates on nRF54L Series devices
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. fota_upgrades_intro_start

|fota_upgrades_def|
You can also use FOTA updates to replace the application.
See the :ref:`app_dfu` page for general Device Firmware Update (DFU) information, such as supported methods for sending and receiving updates on the device.

.. note::

>    For more information about introducing an upgradable bootloader, refer to :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild_upgradable`.

Reviewer: since this is not supported in nrf54l would remove this and replace with a note saying it is not currently supported

.. fota_upgrades_intro_end

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_steps:

FOTA over Bluetooth Low Energy
******************************

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_intro_start

FOTA updates are supported using MCUmgr's Simple Management Protocol (SMP) over Bluetooth®.
The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central device to perform a firmware update.
To use FOTA over Bluetooth LE, samples must support Bluetooth peripheral role (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`).

The application supports SMP handlers related to:

* Image management.
* Operating System (OS) management used to reboot the device after the firmware upload is complete.

> * Erasing settings partition used to ensure that a new application is not booted with incompatible content in the settings partition written by the previous application.

Reviewer: unrelated to this PR but we need to do something about this, settings should not be incompatible with different firmware versions, or even different firmwares, if using settings then only the keys which have been set will be used and the rest will be ignored so clearing settings *by default* is not needed and has been reported by a lot of users as causing issues, it should really be opt-in rather than opt-out

Author: maybe keys-name should be versioned. Agree that it is serous issue.

To enable support for FOTA updates, do the following:

> * Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option, which implies configuration of the following:

Reviewer: not for fixing in this PR but we really should not be using or advising customers to use this Kconfig, at all, it should be for in-tree samples only, as the name implies

   * All of the SMP command handlers mentioned in the previous paragraph.
   * SMP BT reassembly feature.
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU_SPEEDUP` Kconfig option automatically extends the Bluetooth buffers, which allows to speed up the FOTA transfer over Bluetooth, but also increases RAM usage.

    .. note::
       The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option enables the device to use MCUmgr for performing firmware over-the-air (FOTA) updates using Bluetooth LE.
       It can be used along with other samples, and is meant as a demonstration of the default DFU configuration over Bluetooth.

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_intro_end

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mandatory_mcuboot_start

* Use MCUboot as the upgradable bootloader (``SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT`` must be enabled).

>   For more information, go to the :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild_upgradable` page.

Reviewer: as first note

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mandatory_mcuboot_end

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_additional_information_start

If necessary, you can modify any of the implied options or defaulted values introduced by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option.

You can either add these Kconfig options to the configuration files of your application or have them inline in a project build command.
Here is an example of how you can build for the :ref:`peripheral_lbs` sample:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

>     west build -b *board_target* -- -DCONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y -DCONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU=y

Reviewer 2: Missing should be -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y

When you connect to the device after the build has completed and the firmware has been programmed to it, the SMP Service is enabled with the ``UUID 8D53DC1D-1DB7-4CD3-868B-8A527460AA84``.
If you want to add SMP Service to advertising data, refer to the :zephyr:code-sample:`smp-svr`.

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_additional_information_end

> .. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_mcuboot_kmu:

Reviewer 3: Move this section at the end. See [this](https://nordicsemi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/UXF/pages/1065583315/2024.10.28_nRF54L15_Production_Launch_Take2#:~:text=The%20paragraph%20%E2%80%9CProvisioning,that%20user%20guide).

Provisioning of keys for Hardware KMU
=====================================

If FOTA is based on MCUboot bootloader which has enabled hardware cryptography along with KMU then, before any application can be booted need to poced with key provisioning.

> Refer to `nrf54l15_kmu_provisioning_manula`.

Author: manual to be created

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_mcuboot_direct_xip_mode:

> Build configuration additions for MCUboot in the direct-xip mode

Reviewer 3: Move this section at the end. See [this](https://nordicsemi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/UXF/pages/1065583315/2024.10.28_nRF54L15_Production_Launch_Take2#:~:text=The%20paragraph%20%E2%80%9CProvisioning,that%20user%20guide).

================================================================

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mcuboot_direct_xip_information_start

FOTA updates are also supported when MCUboot is in the direct-xip mode.
In this mode, the MCUboot bootloader boots an image directly from a given slot, so the swap operation is not needed.
It can be used either with or without the revert mechanism support.

> For more information about the direct-xip mode and the revert mechanism support, go to the Equal slots (direct-xip) section on the :doc:`mcuboot:design` page.

Reviewer: would add a note that in this mode, there is no support for encrypted images

See how to build the :ref:`peripheral_lbs` sample with MCUboot in the direct-xip mode when the revert mechanism support is disabled:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

    west build -b *board_target* -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y -DSB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP=y -DCONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU=y

Optionally, if you want to enable the revert mechanism support, complete the following:

* Enable the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP_WITH_REVERT`` Kconfig option in sysbuild instead of ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP``.

See how to build the :ref:`peripheral_lbs` sample with MCUboot in direct-xip mode when the revert mechanism support is enabled:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

    west build -b *board_target* -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y -DSB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP_WITH_REVERT=y -DCONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU=y

.. note::
   When building the application with MCUboot in direct-xip mode with revert mechanism support, the signed image intended for flashing is automatically marked as confirmed.
   Without this configuration, the application will fail to boot.

>    It must, however, be disabled when building update images.

Reviewer: the user has nothing to do? Only the hex is confirmed, so this can go

>    It must, however, be disabled when building update images.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand this.

Author: repharsed.

Both the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP`` and ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP_WITH_REVERT`` Kconfig options automatically build application update images for both slots.
To read about the files that are built when the option is enabled, refer to the :ref:`app_build_mcuboot_output` page.

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mcuboot_direct_xip_nrfcdm_note_start

.. note::
   Support for FOTA updates with MCUboot in the direct-xip mode is available since the following versions of the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ mobile app:

   * Version ``1.8.0`` on Android.
   * Version ``1.4.0`` on iOS.

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mcuboot_direct_xip_nrfcdm_note_end

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mcuboot_direct_xip_information_end

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_steps_testing:

Testing steps
=============

.. fota_upgrades_outro_start

To perform a FOTA update, complete the following steps:

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_nrfcdm_common_dfu_steps_start

> 1. Generate the DFU package by building your application with the FOTA support over Bluetooth Low Energy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. 
```
Please remove. Because of [this](https://nordicsemi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/UXF/pages/1065583315/2024.10.28_nRF54L15_Production_Launch_Take2#:~:text=Unnecessary%20wordings%20create%20confusions.).

Reviewer 3: At least this should be modified to avoid confusion. Something like this:

```suggestion
1. Generate the DFU package by building your application with the FOTA support over Bluetooth Low Energy as described in `fota_upgrades_over_ble_additional_information_start`.
```

Reviewer 4: this reference won't work

Reviewer 3: I am not expert in RST referencing and formatting. This is just to indicate what is needed.

Reviewer 4: The reference isn't possible without creating additional section. Would the following solution be enough to point the user in the right direction?

```suggestion
1. Generate the DFU package by building your application with the FOTA support over Bluetooth Low Energy (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU`).
```

   You can find the generated :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive in the build directory.

   .. note::

>       For each image included in the DFU-generated package, use a higher version number than your currently active firmware.

Reviewer 3: This is not needed. If you want to keep this paragraph, please also add steps in the previous section to tell how to change the VERSION number. Else, just say that change "BT_DEVICE_NAME" config option.

Reviewer 3: This is not addressed.

      Otherwise, the DFU target may reject the FOTA process due to a downgrade prevention mechanism.

> #. Download the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive to your device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Download the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive to your mobile phone.
```

The word "device" is extremely confusing here because up-until this point, "device" refers to nRF54L, and in this sentence, "device" means mobile phone.

Reviewer 3: Please fix this.

   See :ref:`app_build_output_files` for more information about the contents of update archive.

   .. note::
      nRF Connect for Desktop does not currently support the FOTA process.

#. Use the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ mobile app to update your device with the new firmware.

   a. Ensure that you can access the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive from your phone or tablet.
   #. In the mobile app, scan and select the device to update.
   #. Switch to the :guilabel:`Image` tab.
   #. Tap the :guilabel:`SELECT FILE` button and select the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive.
   #. Tap the :guilabel:`START` button.

      .. note::
         When performing a FOTA update with the iOS app for samples using random HCI identities, ensure that the :guilabel:`Erase application settings` option is deselected before starting the procedure.

>          Otherwise, the new image will boot with random IDs, causing communication issues between the app and the device.

Reviewer: and this is what I mean, for what reason would the user want this? They have a device with bluetooth identity keys and a trusted bond, they update the firmware, now suddenly the device has a new identify and the phone's bond is useless? That's not helpful or something we should encourage by default

>          Otherwise, the new image will boot with random IDs, causing communication issues between the app and the device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         Otherwise, the new image will boot with random IDs, causing communication issues between the app and the device.
```
... and how does this matter here?? Either explain the reason - why communication issue happens && what is the implication of communication issues. Else, remove this note.

Author: Don't know what write there.

Reviewer 3: I suggest delete the whole note.

   #. Initiate the DFU process of transferring the image to the device:

>       * If you are using an Android device, select a mode in the dialog window, and tap the :guilabel:`START` button.

Reviewer 3: It will be nice to not use the word "device" to refer to phone or table. Else, it is required to be consistent throughout and say "Android/iOS device" every time the work "device" in a sentence refers to the mobile phone/table instead of nRF chip.

```suggestion
      * If you are using an Android phone/tablet, select a mode in the dialog window, and tap the :guilabel:`START` button.
```

Author: @annwoj Can you comment on that?

Author: @omkar3141 This request is more general than this PR. Tech writers asked to raise jira ticket for it and not touch this in that review.

      * If you are using an iOS device, tap the selected mode in the pop-up window.

      .. note::
         For samples using random HCI identities, the Test and Confirm mode should not be used.

>    #. Wait for the DFU to finish and then verify that the application works properly.

Reviewer 3: Instead of this, if you update these steps to modify BT_DEVICE_NAME and check the update procedure, you can simply say: 
```suggestion
   #. Wait for the DFU to finish and then verify that the new application works properly by observing the new device name visible in the Device Manager app.
```

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_nrfcdm_common_dfu_steps_end

.. fota_upgrades_outro_end

FOTA update sample
******************

.. fota_upgrades_update_start

The :zephyr:code-sample:`smp-svr` demonstrates how to set up your project to support FOTA updates.

> The sample documentation is from the Zephyr project and is incompatible with the :ref:`ug_multi_image`.

Reviewer 4: Should this even be mentioned? It's part of the deprecated documentation

Author: Copy from nrf52

Reviewer 4: Since it's deprecated should some specific section from the sysbuild be referred instead?

> The sample documentation is from the Zephyr project and is incompatible with the :ref:`ug_multi_image`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

When working in the |NCS| environment, ignore the part of the sample documentation that describes the building and programming steps.
In |NCS|, you can build and program the :zephyr:code-sample:`smp-svr` as any other sample using the following commands:

.. tabs::

>     .. group-tab:: nRF54l15 SoCs

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    .. group-tab:: nRF54L15 SoCs
```

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

            west build -b *board_target* -- -DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=overlay-bt.conf
            west flash

> .. group-tab:: nRF54l15 SoCs with HW cryptography support

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. group-tab:: nRF54L15 SoCs with HW cryptography support
```

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

            west build -b *board_target* -- -DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=overlay-bt.conf -DSB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ED25519=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_MBEDTLS=n -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_ED25519_PSA=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_MCUBOOT=0x10000 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU=y
            west flash

>     .. group-tab:: nRF54l15dk with SPI Flash as update image bank

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    .. group-tab:: nRF54lL15 DK with SPI Flash as update image bank
```

>             west build -b *board_name*/nrf54l15/cpuapp -- -DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=overlay-bt.conf -DSB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ED25519=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_MBEDTLS=n -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_ED25519_PSA=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_MCUBOOT=0x10000 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU=y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            west build -b *board_name*/nrf54l15/cpuapp -- -DEXTRA_CONF_FILE=overlay-bt.conf -DSB_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_TYPE_ED25519=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY=y -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_MCUBOOT=0x10000 -Dmcuboot_CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_USING_KMU=y
```
If default MCUboot size is not large enough, why don't we increase the default? Also not sure if it's needed or not but this does not use pure signature, and thus does not use sha512

Reviewer 2: We are missing information on how to select Key for build.
The pure is not needed to use sha512.

Reviewer: Should this command build with sha512 though or sha256? If sha256 then it's fine, if sha512 then it needs updating to select it

Reviewer 2: We also lack clear statement what sample this is supposed to be run with, and in the exercise people tried to run the command with something else than smp_svr, which caused build errors on missing overlay.

>     .. group-tab:: nRF54L15dk with SPI Flash as update image bank

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    .. group-tab:: nRF54L15 DK with SPI Flash as update image bank
```

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

>             west build -b *board_target* -T sample.mcumgr.smp_svr.bt.nrf54l15dk.ext_flash

Reviewer 4: Since it's only for nRF54L15 maybe there's no point in giving a variable for board target

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota:

FOTA updates on nRF54L Series devices
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. fota_upgrades_intro_start

|fota_upgrades_def|
You can also use FOTA updates to replace the application.
See the :ref:`app_dfu` page for general Device Firmware Update (DFU) information, such as supported methods for sending and receiving updates on the device.

.. note::
   For more information about introducing immutable MCUboot bootloader, refer to :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild_immutable_mcuboot`.

.. fota_upgrades_intro_end

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_steps:

FOTA over Bluetooth Low Energy
******************************

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_intro_start

FOTA updates are supported using MCUmgr's Simple Management Protocol (SMP) over Bluetooth®.
The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central device to perform a firmware update.
To use FOTA over Bluetooth LE, samples must support Bluetooth peripheral role (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`).

> The application supports SMP handlers related to:

Reviewer 3: The application supports or "application should" to support, meaning is this optional for users to do for the purpose of following this guide? Can you please clarify? Otherwise this sentence fragment is confusing.

Author: 1st and 2nd are must, 3rd is should.

Reviewer 3: Ok. Then is there something wrong here? I followed the guide to add FOTA support to "peripheral_lbs" sample and I didn't have to add any of these handlers and the whole thing still worked. Which is why I think none of these are needed.

Author: Application supports them by default configuration.

Reviewer 3: Then this should be written as:
```suggestion
By virtue of default configuration, the application supports SMP handlers related to:
```

Otherwise, to me, this reads as an instruction or a pre-requisite that makes me wonder what am I supposed to do to make application support SMP handlers.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest simplifying, added a suggestion

Author: I used suggestions from Annna.

* Image management.
* Operating System (OS) management used to reboot the device after the firmware upload is complete.
* Erasing settings partition used to ensure that a new application is not booted with incompatible content in the settings partition written by the previous application.

To enable support for FOTA updates, do the following:

* Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option, which implies configuration of the following:

   * All of the SMP command handlers mentioned in the previous paragraph.
   * SMP BT reassembly feature.
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU_SPEEDUP` Kconfig option automatically extends the Bluetooth buffers, which allows to speed up the FOTA transfer over Bluetooth, but also increases RAM usage.

    .. note::
       The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option enables the device to use MCUmgr for performing firmware over-the-air (FOTA) updates using Bluetooth LE.
       It can be used along with other samples, and is meant as a demonstration of the default DFU configuration over Bluetooth.

> 

Reviewer 3: It is super important from application security perspective to add the one more note here after note on Line 46. The text for the note should be:

https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-18231/nrf/samples/bluetooth/mesh/dfu/distributor/README.html#:~:text=use%20it.-,Note,accessing%20SMP%20characteristics.%20See%20SMP%20over%20Bluetooth%20authentication%20for%20more%20information.,-Testing

> Note: To prevent an unauthenticated access to the device over SMP, it is strongly recommended to enable the [CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT_PERM_RW_AUTHEN](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-18231/kconfig/index.html#CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT_PERM_RW_AUTHEN) option. This will enforce a remote device to initiate a pairing request before accessing SMP characteristics. See [SMP over Bluetooth authentication](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-18231/nrf/samples/bluetooth/mesh/dfu/distributor/README.html#smp-over-bluetooth-authentication) for more information.

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_intro_end

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_mandatory_mcuboot_start

> * Use MCUboot as the immutable bootloader (``SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT`` must be enabled).

Reviewer 3: The previous bullet is a specific instruction. This bullet is vague statement with a link to giant documentation page. Is reader of the page supposed to read of all that? Of course not. I would rewrite this as:

```suggestion
* Enable ``SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT`` option to use MCUboot (link to: :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild_immutable_mcuboot`) as the immutable bootloader.
```

           :class: highlight

            west build -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp -T sample.mcumgr.smp_svr.bt.nrf54l15dk.ext_flash
            west flash

Make sure to indicate the :file:`overlay-bt.conf` overlay configuration for the Bluetooth transport like in the command example.
This configuration was carefully selected to achieve the maximum possible throughput of the FOTA update transport over Bluetooth with the help of the following features:

* Bluetooth MTU - To increase the packet size of a single Bluetooth packet transmitted over the air (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_BUF_ACL_RX_SIZE` and others).
* Bluetooth connection parameters - To adaptively change the connection interval and latency on the detection of the SMP service activity (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT_CONN_PARAM_CONTROL`).
* MCUmgr packet reassembly - To allow exchange of large SMP packets (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT_REASSEMBLY`, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_NETBUF_SIZE` and others).

Consider using these features in your project to speed up the FOTA update process.

.. fota_upgrades_update_end

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_mcuboot_kmu:

> Provisioning of keys for Hardware KMU
> =====================================

Reviewer 3: I think, this is incorrectly marked as a subsection of FOTA Sample. Are you sure this is intended? I think it should be:
```suggestion
Provisioning of keys for Hardware KMU
*************************************
```

In case of FOTA implementations using the MCUboot bootloader, which includes hardware cryptography and KMU, you must complete key provisioning before booting any application.
Refer to :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_provision_kmu` for detailed description.

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_mcuboot_direct_xip_mode:

> Build configuration additions for MCUboot in the direct-xip mode
> ================================================================

Reviewer 3: I think, this is incorrectly marked as a subsection of FOTA Sample. Are you sure this is intended? I think it should be:
```suggestion
Build configuration additions for MCUboot in the direct-xip mode
****************************************************************
```

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota:

FOTA updates on nRF54L Series devices
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

.. fota_upgrades_intro_start

|fota_upgrades_def|
You can also use FOTA updates to replace the application.

> See the :ref:`app_dfu` page for general Device Firmware Update (DFU) information, such as supported methods for sending and receiving updates on the device.

Reviewer: since someone asked about it already, might be an idea to mention only cpuapp updates are supported

> See the :ref:`app_dfu` page for general Device Firmware Update (DFU) information, such as supported methods for sending and receiving updates on the device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`app_dfu` page for general Device Firmware Update (DFU) information, such as supported methods for sending and receiving updates on the device.
Currently, FOTA updates are supported only for the application core.
```

.. note::
   For more information about introducing immutable MCUboot bootloader, refer to :ref:`ug_bootloader_adding_sysbuild_immutable_mcuboot`.

.. fota_upgrades_intro_end

.. _ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_steps:

FOTA over Bluetooth Low Energy
******************************

.. fota_upgrades_over_ble_intro_start

FOTA updates are supported using MCUmgr's Simple Management Protocol (SMP) over Bluetooth®.
The application acts as a GATT server and allows the connected Bluetooth Central device to perform a firmware update.
To use FOTA over Bluetooth LE, samples must support Bluetooth peripheral role (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`).

> The application supports SMP handlers related to:
> 
> * Image management.
> * Operating System (OS) management used to reboot the device after the firmware upload is complete.
> * Erasing settings partition used to ensure that a new application is not booted with incompatible content in the settings partition written by the previous application.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, the application supports SMP handlers related to:

* Image management
* Operating System (OS) management, which is used to reboot the device after completing firmware uploads
* Erasing the settings partition to prevent booting a new application with incompatible content that was written by the previous application
```

To enable support for FOTA updates, do the following:

* Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option, which implies configuration of the following:

>    * All of the SMP command handlers mentioned in the previous paragraph.
>    * SMP BT reassembly feature.
>    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU_SPEEDUP` Kconfig option automatically extends the Bluetooth buffers, which allows to speed up the FOTA transfer over Bluetooth, but also increases RAM usage.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   * All of the SMP command handlers mentioned in the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_developing_ble_fota_steps` section
   * SMP BT reassembly feature
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU_SPEEDUP` Kconfig option, which automatically extends the Bluetooth buffers to speed up the FOTA transfer over Bluetooth while also increasing RAM usage.
```

   You can find the generated :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive in the build directory.

   .. note::
      For each image included in the DFU-generated package, use a higher version number than your currently active firmware.
      You can do this by modifying the VERSION file in the application directory or by making changes to the application code.
      Otherwise, the DFU target may reject the FOTA process due to a downgrade prevention mechanism.

#. Download the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive to your mobile phone.
   See :ref:`app_build_output_files` for more information about the contents of update archive.

   .. note::
      nRF Connect for Desktop does not currently support the FOTA process.

#. Use the `nRF Connect Device Manager`_ mobile app to update your device with the new firmware.

   a. Ensure that you can access the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive from your phone or tablet.
   #. In the mobile app, scan and select the device to update.
   #. Switch to the :guilabel:`Image` tab.
   #. Tap the :guilabel:`SELECT FILE` button and select the :file:`dfu_application.zip` archive.
   #. Tap the :guilabel:`START` button.

>       .. note::
>          When performing a FOTA update with the iOS app for samples using random HCI identities, ensure that the :guilabel:`Erase application settings` option is deselected before starting the procedure.
>          Otherwise, the new image will boot with random IDs, causing communication issues between the app and the device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

    west build -b *board_target* -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y -DSB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP=y -DCONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU=y

Optionally, if you want to enable the revert mechanism support, complete the following:

* Enable the ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP_WITH_REVERT`` Kconfig option in sysbuild instead of ``SB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP``.

See how to build the :ref:`peripheral_lbs` sample with MCUboot in direct-xip mode when the revert mechanism support is enabled:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

    west build -b *board_target* -- -DSB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT=y -DSB_CONFIG_MCUBOOT_MODE_DIRECT_XIP_WITH_REVERT=y -DCONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU=y

.. note::
   When building the application with MCUboot in direct-xip mode with revert mechanism support, the signed image intended for flashing is automatically marked as confirmed (Pre-confirmation).
   Without this configuration, the application will fail to boot.
   Confirmation mark should not, however, be added when building update images.

>    These requirements are ensure by the build system.

Reviewer: would remove this, users don't need to know this (also ensured missing d)

>    These requirements are ensure by the build system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
